As you've seen, there are many similarities and differences between Bitcoin and Ethereum.
At this point, it's helpful to compare them to get
a better idea of how each of these platforms operate.
In this video, we'll walk through a table,
comparing and contrasting Bitcoin with Ethereum,
across a few of their core attributes.
We'll look at things like, permissions,
scalability, currencies, and more.
Let's get started. First, both Bitcoin and Ethereum have permissionless restrictions.
That means that anyone who wants to validate transactions and create blocks,
can do this, there's no restrictions on becoming a part of either of these networks.
This is different from a permission system.
In a permission system,
notes would need permission from a central authority to join the network.
Networks achieve consensus in each of these platforms,
using the Proof of Work algorithm.
Ethereum is currently working on migrating to Proof of Stake,
with a project known as Casper.
We'll highlight this more later,
but for now, they're both using Proof of Work.
Next, the scalability of these platforms are similar.
Because of this, they share both upsides and downsides with each other.
Allowing anyone to join the network is great
for scaling the user base and expanding quickly.
That said, both platforms struggle to scale performance.
Figuring out how to do this is a huge discussion taking place in both communities.
For comparison, Bitcoin takes about 10 minutes to settle a transaction,
and Ethereum takes about 15 seconds.
That might seem like a huge improvement,
but let's compare that to Visa and MasterCard.
These process about 5,000 transactions per second.
With that in mind, you can see there's still a lot of room for improvement.
Next, let's look at the regulation of the protocol.
By this, we mean the way decisions get made within the community.
Bitcoin and Ethereum both have improvement proposal systems in place.
Because of this, they're able to work with both an open source community,
as well as a core set of developers,
to contribute to its developing ecosystem.
This means, there's a huge opportunity for you to
get involved in these platforms to help them improve.
Both of these platforms are pseudoanonymous,
this means that their identities are tied to their public keys.
So, while transactions are still anonymous,
they're not completely anonymous.
It's possible to see who made a transaction,
if you can trace the user to their public key.
Each of these platforms also have a native currency, Bitcoin and Ether.
This isn't always the case with other platforms.
In some cases, a platform won't have any currency,
or they could have a token,
that's dependent on a platform like Ethereum, to operate.
Finally, the potential for scripting is different between each of these platforms.
This is the main focus of these lessons,
so we won't go into too much detail here.
The languages provided by Ethereum,
like Solidity, are the basis for smart contracts that we'll be developing.
While Bitcoin does have some scripting functionality,
it's not as capable as Ethereum in the sense.
All right. So that finishes up this side-by-side comparison of these platforms.
As you can see, they're actually more similar than they are different.
Some of the main differences are their scripting,
currencies, and in the future of their consensus algorithms.
Keep this in mind as you continue to learn more about Ethereum.
Working through these new tools and ecosystems can get pretty complicated.
Being able to relate this new information to ideas you already know,
will give you a great start as you continue learning.